I am applying for the Mozilla Science Fellows program because I am a champion of open science and open data. My interest in open science stems from my love of code and automation, and the roles of these in scientific progress. I learned to code in order to run experiments and analyze results, and have become convinced that code is the best way scientists have of helping each other out. All of my research depends on open source software, and in turn I have made all of the products of my research available for reuse and extension. For example, I make my experiments available as git repositories, and the data for my experiments can be downloaded as R packages. Through interaction with the Mozilla Science team and other Fellows, I hope to identify the most beneficial open science practices and promote them at my university and in the open science community.

From a research perspective, I'm interested in what makes open science collaborations succeed. One hypothesis is that having a version control system is essential to the success of open collaborations because it allows for the products of collaboration to evolve. Right now I'm investigating this hypothesis as it pertains to Wikipedia and changes in Wikipedia article quality over time.

My training is as an cognitive psychologist running behavioral experiments in person and online. I'm interested in the role that culture plays in understanding our cognitive abilities, and I have studied this question most closely as it pertains to human language, a ubiquitious product of human culture. I've shown that the meanings of words like dog are represented differently than the meanings of everyday sounds like dog barks. I've also shown a possible way in which words can evolve from nonverbal imitations simply as a result of iteration.
